- [Interviewer] Michelle,
you're homeless here in Venice.
Tell me about it.
- I never asked to be
homeless here in Venice.
It just happened to me.
(car driving)
I've got five minutes of a story
and in five minutes
it'll go short and sweet.
I came from Orleans, Indiana
which is southern part of Indiana,
farmland, Midwest territory.
Bad divorce.
Friend out here in Salinas, California
talked me into moving out here
to put some space between me and my ex.
Which I did.
She flew into Indianapolis, Indiana.
She came to my home.
We packed my vehicle.
My belongings, put what
I couldn't bring with me
and put the rest of it in storage.
Brought my puppy, Russell Otis.
They stole him.
I used to have my own
business back in Indiana.
I was a pet groomer.
Boarded dogs. Bred dogs.
I was living on a farm with my,
ex-husband was a farmer
of corn and soybeans.
Wealthy, wealthy man.
I got to where I thought I was
better than everybody myself.
Now look at me.
I've lived a hard life
and I've lived a hard way.
Two and a half years ago
I had a massive stroke
before I ever left Indiana.
Couldn't get no insurance,
tried and tried to get insurance,
couldn't get no insurance and my husband
being that he's a wealthy, wealthy man,
made hundreds of thousands of dollars,
could not afford to pay insurance on me.
There is a lot of programs and resources
out here on these streets
if you just use 'em.
I can't do no more I'm sorry.
- [Interviewer] You sure?
- Mhmm.
- [Interviewer] So, cause you said you had
a stroke six days ago.
- Six days ago I had another stroke,
a light one.
- [Interviewer] Yeah.
- I'm prone to having strokes now that
I had that first massive
one six months ago.
Before I even landed in California,
in between Indiana and here,
I ended up in Arizona
hospital, Kingman, Arizona.
I was in the hospital/rehabilitation,
acute rehabilitation center
slash for twelve weeks
before ever I landed at my
friends house in Salinas.
She went ahead to Salinas,
took my car, took my belongings,
took care of everything
while I was in the hospital.
Now who's got all my stuff and my car now?
She does.
- [Interviewer] So how'd you end up here?
- How did I end up here?
- [Interviewer] Yeah.
- I got on a Greyhound,
didn't have no ID cause somebody
stole my purse, of course.
Live and you learn.
Didn't have no ID, got on the Greyhound.
My friend did help me purchase the ticket,
first driver didn't have no issue
with the no license, no ID, or whatever.
Second driver didn't go that way.
And then, I missed my bus.
The next bus that came in,
the next driver would
not let me on that bus.
They wouldn't fix my ticket.
They wouldn't do nothing.
They threw me out on the streets
at 3:34 o'clock in the
morning in LA. Downtown.
First time I had ever
been here in my life.
I stayed down there for three, four days.
Downtown I did run into a group
of some people that was homeless as well,
that pitched in there and showed me
a little bit of ropes and
took me to a safe place.
So I have made several friends out here.
I've been out here for
a little over a year.
- [Interviewer] Now, what's
homelessness like out here?
- What is homelessness like out here?
- [Interviewer] Yeah, what is it like.
- Awful.
- [Interviewer] What would
you want people to know
about homelessness, that they don't know.
- What they don't know about homelessness
is that we're not out here, you know,
I've heard so many smart comments
about only the finest for the homeless.
Only the finest for the homeless.
It should never be that way.
Why would I choose to be out here
showering in the cold waters
and laying on these cold concrete.
How is that that, you know,
the best for the homeless?
- [Interviewer] People
think that, you know,
homeless people are lazy,
yet every day is work,
work, work to survive.
There's no vacation days,
there's no time off,
and like you, you have medical problems.
There's no place to rest.
- Absolutely. You can't lay down and rest.
You know, if you lay down and go into
a deep sleep you're going to have someone
waking you up, telling you to move,
you're not allowed here,
you're not allowed there.
Which I understand that.
We're not supposed to be out here.
I never chose this,
but I need to choose a safe spot
wherever I need to lay down
cause I can only do so much.
- [Interviewer] Right.
- If I keep on pushing
myself the way I am,
I'm going to die out here.
- [Interviewer] Oh my gosh.
I'm so sorry.
- I don't want nobody
to feel sorry for me.
I don't want them to pray for me.
- [Interviewer] Yeah.
You need people to be an
answer to your prayers.
If you had three wishes
what would they be?
- Three wishes. Better health,
better relationship, and a
better financial situation.
And I'm regrouping sir.
I will get back on my feet.
- [Interviewer] Yeah.
Well that's one thing you said
when I asked if people are helping you,
you said you're gonna get on your feet.
You're gonna do it.
- I'm the one that did it,
I'm the one that's gonna fix it.
- [Interviewer] Well thank you very much
for talking to me.
- You're welcome.
(uplifting electronic music)